Valpuris, the Holy City of the Great Frog
------------------------------------------

Geographical information

Valpuris is a relatively small city located in a thick evergreen forest called the Sylvan
Weald, where it acts as the capital of the Holy Imperium of Aethelgard, which in turn
controls all of the continent of Aethelgard and is the world's 324th biggest sovereign
state. The city is physically quite isolated from the rest of the world, but the citizens
don't mind it all since almost all of them receive their news by enchanted missive delivered
thrice weekly by the Cathedral's courier corps. The oceanic coast is quite near the border
of the forest, however, and pilgrims wandering to the Cathedral and traders delivering
goods, luxury items and deep-sea eel for the clergy class are not entirely uncommon in
Valpuris.

Nature

Nature is close in everyday life of Valpuris, because civilization ends completely no
further than at the city gate (if it has ever even begun) and wilderness takes over. The
city guards are obligated to keep the area inside the city wall safe, but outside wolves,
lynxes and wild bears may roam freely. Settlements of goblins, ogres and mutant school
food mushrooms are also common. Even Wraithstalkers have been heard wailing in the
darkness that covers the forest, but they, of course, are slain with enchanted crossbow
bolts if they ever wander closer than 500 yards to the city, in order to prevent
structural damage caused in the city.

Sources of livelihood

The citizens live mostly by hunting bears and such from the forest and whittling
sacred-looking items from wood that foreigners seeking truth and Valpuris's blessing buy
eagerly as holy relics. The public expenditures of the state, e.g. salaries of the
Archpriestly elite guards, cost of the enormous amounts of sacramental mead needed in the
Cathedral and the price of replenishing Cordatus's servant staff and chambers monthly, are
funded almost entirely by the state-owned valpuris crystal mines located in the tundra
section of Aethelgard.

Government

Valpuris and the Holy Imperium of Aethelgard are officially ruled by Valpuris the Great
Frog and the King of Gods, but since He is quite often absent when decisions are made, His
Most Pious Archpriest acts as a messenger who delivers His orders to mortal men from godly
planes. The Archpriest retains his position for his entire lifetime. When he dies, the
next leader is chosen immediately by the Valpuristic Conclave of High Priests, and is
almost always the one who killed the last Archpriest (although there seem to be some other,
not so popularly known requirements for this crowning).

History

The former headquarters of the Imperium were located up in the tundra area of Aethelgard
but were eaten by a swarm of angry polar bears in 913 Anno Valpuris. Valpuris was founded
in the next year, and, as can be well guessed by looking at the map, its place was decided
randomly by choosing the coordinates by casting of sacred rune-bones.

The first building to rise in Valpuris was the Cathedral, which yet today looms over the
city as a symbol of Valpuris's might. The Archpriest of that day used much of his mighty
magical abilities to aid the building process and to protect it from the attacks of the
wildlands beasts. So much that after the Cathedral and the city wall were finally up, he
was easily beaten in duel by Cordatus, the present Archpriest. Cordatus moved to the
Cathedral immediately and started his reign by naming the country and all important
landmarks (Valpuris was not considered as such) inside its borders after himself. And
during the following decades under his rule, Valpuris has gradually become what it is
today.
