The Eight Eggs of Valpuris


Rather difficult indeed is to converse about the beginning, since Time itself is a
product of the Creation. Only Valpuris knows for sure, and yet to this day he has not
revealed all of the Great Mystery, even to other gods.

It is said that during the First Age the Duchal Library of Omaktos contained the most
detailed description of these events and the elven folk of Artami long sang the Song of
Fate itself, but both took their secrets with them during their fall after the Incursion.

This story is mostly based on researches of Suetomit Sutsac, High Priest of Otoul'iv
Ik-Omit and the current Grand Duke of the rebuilt Omaktos, and much of it has been
verified also by the High Priest of the Great Frog Himself and the ruler of the Holy
Imperium of Aethelgard.

One thing is sure: In the beginning, there was Valpuris. Valpuris, the Creator and the
Father of the Elder Gods. But He was, and is, actually much more than His physical form
we all know. It is only one of His countless manifestations. Sutsac theorises that it is
even possible that this physical form was His own creation on the beginning of the First
Day. More important, in his opinion, is His manifestation as the Void, also and better
known as the Sea of Eternity.

This he says to be the true form of the Great Frog. The Sea is boundless unlike any
physical element and before the Awakening contained nothing, absolutely nothing. But,
somehow, someway, It became sentient and became He. And this event gave birth to time,
and the First Day began.

After the Awakening Valpuris looked around and saw only the nothingness of the Void. But,
He wanted something other than nothing to become existent, because... Why? This is one of
the biggest question-marks of the Great Mystery. Sutsac cannot answer this, nor does any
other High Priest. All we can give are guesses; since nothingness is quite boring, perhaps
it was just for fun? But this supposes Valpuris would think like a man, lusting for
enjoyment, and we can't trust that. Perhaps He had a mind of an artist, only creating
because of the delight of creation? Better guess, but still supposes Valpuris to think
with a mind of a lesser being, which is not appropriate. Sutsac trusts there is some
greater meaning behind this, some yet not unraveled and perhaps never understandable to
any lifeform lesser than the Great Frog Himself.

Even if the reason is yet to this day a complete mystery, the result is better known:
The Elder Gods, the Okkammas and the Nenimhi, who were to shape the World. Okkammas,
the Frog Gods, were the first to be born, during the Initial Day. Each one He decided a
task, laid an egg, helped it to hatch and gave the young deity a unique mind and soul,
with fundamental tasks on the World. Over time, their minds have been altered, but this
list shows what they were at first:

 The first Child born was Okkuu'lu T'trep, God of Life, 1/3 days after the Awakening.
 The second was Otoul'iv Ik-Omit, God of Knowledge, 2/3 days after the Awakening.
 The third was Okrepatri Vakk'uut, God of Change, at the end of the First Day.

Next day he gave birth to the Nenimhi, the man-like gods. No one knows why he so
drastically changed the nature and outlook of the gods between the first two days,
perhaps because the Okkammas also achieved sentience during this day, and wanted to have
their mark on the work also. Nonetheless while the Okkammas looked and thought more like
Valpuris, the Nenimhi were more like mankind mortals, and completed tasks of lesser value
but more specialized than the Okkammas. As we know, this two-tree division of gods does
not apply anymore, since the Chaos has altered everyone more or less.

 The Nenimhi were:

 Nenitra Akirali, God of Machines, born 1 1/3 days after the Awakening.
 Nenaria Si'kkieh, God of Money, born 1 2/3 days after the Awakening (twin of Senner).
 Nenaria Senner, Goddess of Beauty, born 1 2/3 days after the Awakening (twin of Si'kkieh).
 Neno Sokokin, Goddess of Music, born at end of Second day (twin of T'lepasev).
 Neno T'lepasev, Goddess of Imagination, born at end of Second day (twin of Sokokin).

Thus were the Eight Elder Gods alive, the three Okkammas and the five Nenimhi, after the
First Two Days of Creation.


The Forming

And the First Gods had been born and swam in the Sea of Eternity. The Great Task of
Building the World was to begin. At first, T'lepasev imagined the Earth as it would be
once completed. She saw the mountains, rivers, birds of the sky, the sentient races that
would dominate the lands, events that would shape the destiny of nations. Since physical
writable surfaces did not yet exist, she dictated her dream to Sokokin, who composed it
as a song, the most eternal of all forms of information. And at the evening of the Third
Day Senner was ready to sing the Song of Fate to the other Elders and the Great Frog
Himself. And all they nodded to the Neno as a sign of acceptance. And the Plan was
complete.

In the beginning of the Fourth Day Otoul'iv wrote the Laws of Physics which would
determine the ways of energy and its many forms' behavior. It is said, especially in the
earlier ages, that there is virtually an infinite amount of these Laws, just so that the
mortal could never unravel every one of them.

And in the evening of the Fourth Day Valpuris the Great Frog cast the Spell of Creation,
the most supreme magical act of all of Time, and summoned the Laws into existence, to rule
upon the World, to which he allocated a space from the Void, a flat cylinder, said to be
4242 miles wide and 256 miles in height, and placed it above His own Back, where it now
resides. It is said the latter was done for otherwise "the Earth would sink into the Sea",
whatever that would mean.
