It began with the first war of the gods. Mortifer rose against Valpuris for supremacy, and they were joined by other gods. Legifer, chosen by Valpuris, and Atavus were the first to aid Valpuris. Infuscor and Cruentus, though they weren't agreeable, joined Mortifer. Loricatus, though he would have liked to join Valpuris, was forced to stay neutral, forging weapons and armor for all. It was at the height of this war, that the artifacts came to be, for the gods soon found themselves in a stalemate, so they got underlings to battle for them. These underlings were weak, puny mortals, so they gifted them with artifacts and aid when they prayed. Valpuris elected a High Priest, and gave him the Justifier. Legifer asked for an explosive mace to be forged. Cruentus, to spite Loricatus, suggested to Mortifer that he create a deadly mace himself, because Valpuris had Justifier and Mortifer had nothing. So, calling upon Infuscor, Mortifer imbued the Nethervane with the destructiveness that was his very nature. The Justifier was still very mighty though, so the chaotic gods sought various ways for their underlings to defeat the High Priest. Infuscor came up with thunder hammers. Cleptia got Saal'thul and whips of thievery. Scabies, chameleon whips. When Sophos asked for Soulthorn, Infuscor asked for Thunderfist. All this kept Loricatus very busy.

After a while, there came a brief reprieve, a lull in the course of the war, the eye of the storm. During this time, many mortals, seeking protection, became devout worshipers. Some of them were named champions, a parody of the High Priest of Valpuris. It was during this time, that the Order of Dark Knights came to be. The first Master Dark Knight was given the Nethervane, and he wrought much destruction with it. A powerful man, pride was his undoing. Believing that none could defeat him, he sought out the High Priest and gave battle. At first, it seemed to be going his way... until his mace-arm was severed. Mortifer was enraged at the loss of Nethervane, and when he managed to reclaim it, he vowed that no mortal should wield it unless he was become a champion of Mortifer, which was harder now than it was before, for Mortifer had lost what little trust he had in man. The second Master Dark Knight, the son of the first (for in the beginning titles were inherited) vowed that he would have vengeance against the High Priest, and led the Dark Knights to victory after victory, for few remained steadfast in the beats of the battledrum of Cruentus, and those few fell to Thunderfist in the hands of the Master Dark Knight. Before long, the Justifier met Thunderfist, and, the High Priest being of venerable age, fell to the mind-numbing shockwaves of Thunderfist. It seemed that Mortifer had won, but wait! There was a glow, and the High Priest returned to life! He gave a mighty shout of prayer, and behold! Inlux the Archangel of Valpuris came to earth in a flash of light, and flaming sword in hand! For while Cruentus was busy with the Order of Dark Knights, the lawful gods secretly commissioned Loricatus to forge flaming swords, and Loricatus had made nine of these. The lawful archangels each received one, and Valpuris kept one for himself, a mighty blade of valpuris crystal, +10. The Dark Knights were routed, but now the secret was out, and Infuscor, through Mellis, managed to secure the other two flaming swords, and they were given to the third Master Dark Knight, Khaz-Zadm was his name. He did what no mortal achieved before, the friendship of the mages of Infuscor and the Dark Knights of Cruentus, and in this time the Dark Knights became smarter, and the mages stronger.

Khaz-Zadm was highly successful in his campaigns, and it was during his life that the Order of Dark Knights truly flourished. Khaz-Zadm made good use of mages, for now that they were tougher, they were no longer restricted indoors, and a few always accompanied the Dark Knights when they went to battle. Even Ischaldirh, champion of Infuscor since the beginning of the war and a true advocate of "mind over matter", saw good in this, for now they had a greater range of studies. Especially the testing of new spells and formulae on enemies encountered. This also allowed necromancy to come into its own right. However, Khaz-Zadm was still a mortal, and over time he aged, and weakened. Finally, when he was slain in battle, they put him away and set his second-in-command to guard his tomb, awaiting an appropriate moment to be reborn. One of Khaz-Zadm's flaming swords was lost, however, so the mages crafted a shield for him. That devastating battle was not the last in the war, yet it signaled the end, and soon open war ceased.

The Order of Dark Knights weren't finished, however. When the High Priest of Valpuris founded the Holy City and the Valpurian conquests began a few decades later, many of those enslaved sought freedom and vengeance, and found it in the Dark Knights. Nethervane being in the possession of Mortifer, Thunderfist (along with most semi/artifacts) lost in the war, a flaming sword in Khaz-Zadm's lifeless hand and the other lost, the Dark Knights turned to a more militaristic approach, and adopted the long swords of the Cossacks as the primary weapon. Decent damage, good reach, not too hard to master and easily mass produced, it became their standard weapon and remains so to this day. Grand Master Dark Knights, however, seeking the glory of the First Masters, sheathed their long swords and picked up other weapons.

The present Grand Master Dark Knight, Golgor Dhan, is a man of unknown age. His birthplace is unclear, but it is known that he was originally a guard of Valpuris. He maintains a guard's appreciation of large swords, and is an expert with the largest swords in existence - two-handed scimitars. He has trained with those to the point of wielding them single-handedly, and delivers slashes with a zealous ferocity also carried over from his guard days. Of the First Masters, he is most like Khaz-Zadm. Although he disdains anything but straight forward one-on-one combat, he sees the usefulness of the mages.
